---
layout: archive
title: "PhD Dissertation"
permalink: /phddissertation/
author_profile: true
redirect_from:
  - /phd/
  - /dissertation/
  - /phdthesis/
  - /doctorate/
---

{% include base_path %}

# Compiler and Runtime Systems for Homomorphic Encryption and Graph Processing on Distributed and Heterogeneous Architectures

A thesis submitted for the Degree of Doctor of Philosophy to the University of Texas at Austin.

**Advisor:** [Dr. Keshav Pingali](https://www.cs.utexas.edu/~pingali/)

[Download thesis here](https://www.cs.utexas.edu/~roshan/RoshanDissertation.pdf)

### Abstract

Distributed and heterogeneous architectures are tedious to program
because devices such as CPUs, GPUs, and FPGAs provide different
programming abstractions and may have disjoint memories, even if they
are on the same machine. 
In this thesis, I present compiler and runtime systems 
that make it easier to develop efficient programs for
privacy-preserving computation and graph processing applications on such
architectures.

Fully Homomorphic Encryption (FHE) refers to a set of encryption schemes
that allow computations on encrypted data without requiring a secret
key. Recent cryptographic advances have pushed FHE into the realm of
practical applications. However, programming these applications remains
a huge challenge, as it requires cryptographic domain expertise to
ensure correctness, security, and performance. 
This thesis introduces a domain-specific compiler for fully-homomorphic 
deep neural network (DNN) inferencing as well as a general-purpose 
language and compiler for fully-homomorphic computation:

* I present CHET, a domain-specific optimizing compiler, that is designed to make the task 
of programming DNN inference applications using FHE easier.
CHET automates many laborious and error prone programming tasks
including encryption parameter selection to guarantee security and
accuracy of the computation, determining efficient data layouts, and
performing scheme-specific optimizations. Our evaluation of CHET on a
collection of popular DNNs shows that CHET-generated programs
outperform expert-tuned ones by an order of magnitude. 

* I present a new FHE language called Encrypted
Vector Arithmetic (EVA), which includes an optimizing compiler
that generates correct and secure FHE programs, while
hiding all the complexities of the target FHE scheme. Bolstered
by our optimizing compiler, programmers can develop
efficient general-purpose FHE applications directly in EVA.
EVA is designed to also work as an intermediate representation
that can be a target for compiling higher-level
domain-specific languages. To demonstrate this, we have
re-targeted CHET onto EVA. Due to the novel optimizations
in EVA, its programs are on average 5.3x faster
than those generated by the unmodified version of CHET. 

These languages and compilers enable a wider adoption of FHE.

Applications in several areas like machine learning, bioinformatics, and
security need to process and analyze very large graphs. Distributed
clusters are essential in processing such graphs in reasonable time. I
present a novel approach to building distributed graph analytics systems
that exploits heterogeneity in processor types, partitioning policies,
and programming models. The key to this approach is Gluon, a
domain-specific communication-optimizing substrate. Programmers write 
applications in a shared-memory programming system of their choice and 
interface these applications with Gluon using a lightweight API. 
Gluon enables these programs to run on heterogeneous clusters 
in the bulk-synchronous parallel (BSP) model and optimizes
communication in a novel way by exploiting structural and temporal invariants of graph partitioning policies. 
We also extend Gluon to support lock-free, non-blocking,
bulk-asynchronous execution by introducing 
the bulk-asynchronous parallel (BASP) model.
Our experiments were done on CPU clusters with up to 256 multi-core, multi-socket hosts 
and on multi-GPU clusters with up to 64 GPUs. The communication 
optimizations
in Gluon improve end-to-end application execution time by 2.6x
on the average. 
Gluon's BASP-style execution is on average 1.5x faster than 
its BSP-style execution 
for graph applications on real-world large-diameter graphs at scale.
The D-Galois and D-IrGL systems built using Gluon scale well and are faster than Gemini,
the state-of-the-art distributed CPU-only graph analytics system, by factors of 
3.9x and 4.9x on average using 
distributed CPUs and distributed GPUs respectively.
The Gluon-based D-IrGL system for distributed GPUs is also 
on average 12x faster than Lux, 
the only other distributed GPU-only graph analytics system. 
The Gluon-based D-IrGL system was one of the first distributed GPU graph analytics systems 
and is the only asynchronous one.
