---
title: "CuSP: A Customizable Streaming Edge Partitioner for Distributed Graph Analytics"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2019-ipdps
date: 2019-05-20
venue: 'IEEE International Parallel and Distributed Processing Symposium (IPDPS)'
paperurl: ''
citation: 'Loc Hoang, Roshan Dathathri, Gurbinder Gill, Keshav Pingali, “CuSP: A Customizable Streaming Edge Partitioner for Distributed Graph Analytics,” Proceedings of the 33rd IEEE International Parallel and Distributed Processing Symposium (IPDPS), May 2019.'
---
[(Download publication here)](https://www.cs.utexas.edu/~roshan/CuSP.pdf) [(Download slides here)](https://www.cs.utexas.edu/~roshan/CuSP.pptx) [(Download source code here)](https://github.com/IntelligentSoftwareSystems/Galois)

### Abstract

Graph analytics systems must analyze graphs with billions
of vertices and edges which require several terabytes of storage.
Distributed-memory clusters are often used for analyzing such large graphs
since the main memory of a single machine is usually restricted to a few hundreds of
gigabytes. This requires partitioning the graph among the machines in the cluster.
Existing graph analytics systems usually come with a built-in partitioner
that incorporates a particular partitioning policy,
but the best partitioning policy is dependent on the algorithm, input
graph, and platform. Therefore, built-in partitioners are not sufficiently
flexible. Stand-alone graph partitioners are available, but they too implement
only a small number of partitioning policies.

This paper presents CuSP, a fast streaming edge partitioning 
framework which permits users to specify the desired partitioning
policy at a high level of abstraction and generates high-quality graph
partitions fast. For example, it can partition wdc12, the
largest publicly available web-crawl graph, with 4 billion vertices and
129 billion edges, in under 2 minutes for clusters with 128 machines.
Our experiments show that it can produce quality partitions 6x
faster on average than the state-of-the-art stand-alone partitioner
in the literature while supporting a wider range of partitioning policies.
