---
title: "Gluon-Async: A Bulk-Asynchronous System for Distributed and Heterogeneous Graph Analytics"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2019-pact
date: 2019-09-23
venue: 'ACM/IEEE International Conference on Parallel Architectures and Compilation Techniques (PACT)'
paperurl: ''
citation: '<b>Roshan Dathathri</b>, Gurbinder Gill, Loc Hoang, Hoang-Vu Dang, Vishwesh Jatala, V. Krishna Nandivada, Marc Snir, Keshav Pingali, “Gluon-Async: A Bulk-Asynchronous System for Distributed and Heterogeneous Graph Analytics,” Proceedings of the 28th IEEE International Conference on Parallel Architectures and Compilation Techniques (PACT), September 2019.'
---
[(Download publication here)](https://www.cs.utexas.edu/~roshan/Gluon-Async.pdf) [(Download slides here)](https://www.cs.utexas.edu/~roshan/GluonAsync.pptx) [(Download source code here)](https://github.com/IntelligentSoftwareSystems/Galois)

### Abstract

Distributed graph analytics systems for CPUs, like D-Galois and
Gemini, and for GPUs, like D-IrGL and Lux, use a bulk-synchronous parallel
(BSP) programming and execution model. BSP permits bulk-communication 
and uses large messages 
which are supported efficiently by current message transport layers,
but bulk-synchronization can exacerbate the performance impact of load imbalance
because a round cannot be completed until every host has completed that round.
Asynchronous distributed graph analytics systems circumvent this problem
by permitting hosts to make progress at their own pace, but existing systems
either use global locks and send small messages or
send large messages but do not support general partitioning
policies such as vertex-cuts. 
Consequently, they perform substantially worse than bulk-synchronous systems.
Moreover, none of their programming or execution models can be 
easily adapted for heterogeneous devices like GPUs.

In this paper, we design and implement a lock-free, non-blocking,
bulk-asynchronous runtime called Gluon-Async for distributed and heterogeneous graph
analytics. The runtime supports any partitioning policy and uses
bulk-communication. We present the bulk-asynchronous parallel (BASP) model which
allows the programmer to utilize the runtime by specifying only the abstract
communication required.
Applications written in this model are compared with the BSP
programs written using (1) D-Galois and D-IrGL, the state-of-the-art
distributed graph analytics systems (which are bulk-synchronous) for CPUs and
GPUs, respectively, and (2) Lux, another (bulk-synchronous) distributed GPU
graph analytical system.
Our evaluation shows that programs written using
BASP-style execution are on average ~1.5x faster than those in
D-Galois and D-IrGL on real-world large-diameter graphs at scale. They are
also on average ~12x faster than Lux. 
To the best of our knowledge, Gluon-Async is the first
asynchronous distributed GPU graph analytics system.
