---
title: "Pangolin: An Efficient and Flexible Graph Mining System on CPU and GPU"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2020-vldb-1
date: 2020-04-31
venue: 'Proceedings of the International Conference on Very Large Data Bases (PVLDB)'
paperurl: 'https://doi.org/10.14778/3389133.3389137'
citation: 'Xuhao Chen, <b>Roshan Dathathri</b>, Gurbinder Gill, Keshav Pingali, “Pangolin: An Efficient and Flexible Graph Mining System on CPU and GPU,” Proceedings of the 46th International Conference on Very Large Data Bases (PVLDB), 13(8), April 2020 (to appear).'
---
[(Download publication here)](https://www.cs.utexas.edu/~roshan/Pangolin.pdf)

[(Download an earlier arxiv version of the paper here)](https://arxiv.org/abs/1911.06969)

### Abstract

There is growing interest in graph pattern mining (GPM)
problems such as motif counting. GPM systems have been
developed to provide unified interfaces for programming algorithms 
for these problems and for running them on parallel systems. 
However, existing systems may take hours to
mine even simple patterns in moderate-sized graphs, which
significantly limits their real-world usability.

We present Pangolin, a high-performance and 
flexible in-memory GPM framework targeting shared-memory CPUs
and GPUs. Pangolin is the first GPM system that provides
high-level abstractions for GPU processing. It provides a
simple programming interface based on the extend-reduce-filter model, 
which allows users to specify application-specific knowledge 
for search space pruning and isomorphism test elimination. 
We describe novel optimizations that exploit locality, 
reduce memory consumption, and mitigate the overheads of 
dynamic memory allocation and synchronization.

Evaluation on a 28-core CPU demonstrates that Pangolin
outperforms existing GPM frameworks Arabesque, RStream,
and Fractal by 49x, 88x, and 80x on average, respectively.
Acceleration on a V100 GPU further improves performance
of Pangolin by 15x on average. Compared to state-of-the-art 
hand-optimized GPM applications, Pangolin provides
competitive performance with less programming effort.