---
title: "EVA: An Encrypted Vector Arithmetic Language and Compiler for Efficient Homomorphic Computation"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2020-pldi
date: 2020-06-15
venue: 'ACM SIGPLAN Conference on Programming Language Design and Implementation (PLDI)'
paperurl: 'https://doi.org/10.1145/3385412.3386023'
citation: '<b>Roshan Dathathri</b>, Blagovesta Kostova, Olli Saarikivi, Wei Dai, Kim Laine, Madan Musuvathi, “EVA: An Encrypted Vector Arithmetic Language and Compiler for Efficient Homomorphic Computation,” Proceedings of the 41st ACM SIGPLAN International Conference on Programming Language Design and Implementation (PLDI), June 2020 (to appear).'
---
[(Download publication here)](https://www.cs.utexas.edu/~roshan/EVA.pdf)

[(Download an earlier arxiv version of the paper here)](https://arxiv.org/abs/1912.11951)

### Abstract

Fully-Homomorphic Encryption (FHE) offers powerful capabilities 
by enabling secure offloading of both storage and computation, 
and recent innovations in schemes and implementations have made 
it all the more attractive. At the same time, FHE is notoriously 
hard to use with a very constrained programming model, a very 
unusual performance profile, and many cryptographic constraints. 
Existing compilers for FHE either target simpler but less efficient 
FHE schemes or only support specific domains where they can rely 
on expert-provided high-level runtimes to hide complications. 
 
This paper presents a new FHE language called Encrypted Vector 
Arithmetic (EVA), which includes an optimizing compiler that 
generates correct and secure FHE programs, while hiding all 
the complexities of the target FHE scheme. Bolstered by our 
optimizing compiler, programmers can develop efficient 
general-purpose FHE applications directly in EVA. For example, 
we have developed image processing applications using EVA, 
with a very few lines of code.  
 
EVA is designed to also work as an intermediate representation 
that can be a target for compiling higher-level domain-specific 
languages. To demonstrate this, we have re-targeted CHET, an 
existing domain-specific compiler for neural network inference, 
onto EVA. Due to the novel optimizations in EVA, its programs 
are on average 5.3x faster than those generated by CHET. 
We believe that EVA would enable a wider adoption of FHE by 
making it easier to develop FHE applications and domain-specific 
FHE compilers.
