---
title: "Distributed Training of Embeddings using Graph Analytics"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2021-ipdps
date: 2021-05-17
venue: 'IEEE International Parallel and Distributed Processing Symposium (IPDPS)'
paperurl: ''
citation: 'Gurbinder Gill, <b>Roshan Dathathri</b>, Saeed Maleki, Madan Musuvathi, Todd Mytkowicz, Olli Saarikivi, “Distributed Training of Embeddings using Graph Analytics,” Proceedings of the 35th IEEE International Parallel and Distributed Processing Symposium (IPDPS), May 2021.'
---
[(Download publication here)](https://www.cs.utexas.edu/~roshan/GraphAny2Vec.pdf)

[(Download earlier arxiv version here)](http://arxiv.org/abs/1909.03359) 

### Abstract

Many applications today, such as natural language
processing, network and code analysis, rely on semantically
embedding objects into low-dimensional fixed-length vectors.
Such embeddings naturally provide a way to perform useful
downstream tasks, such as identifying relations among objects
and predicting objects for a given context. Unfortunately, training
accurate embeddings is usually computationally intensive and
requires processing large amounts of data.

This paper presents a distributed training framework for a
class of applications that use Skip-gram-like models to generate
embeddings. We call this class Any2Vec and it includes Word2Vec
(Gensim), and Vertex2Vec (DeepWalk and Node2Vec) among
others. We first formulate Any2Vec training algorithm as a graph
application. We then adapt the state-of-the-art distributed graph
analytics framework, D-Galois, to support dynamic graph generation
and re-partitioning, and incorporate novel communication
optimizations. We show that on a cluster of 32 48-core hosts
our framework GraphAny2Vec matches the accuracy of the
state-of-the-art shared-memory implementations of Word2Vec
and Vertex2Vec, and gives geo-mean speedups of 12x and 5x respectively. 
Furthermore, GraphAny2Vec is on average 2x faster than DMTK, the 
state-of-the-art distributed Word2Vec implementation, on 32 hosts while 
yielding much better accuracy.
