---
title: "Sandslash: A Two-Level Framework for Efficient Graph Pattern Mining"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2021-ics
date: 2021-06-04
venue: 'ACM International Conference on Supercomputing (ICS)'
paperurl: 'https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3447818.3460359'
citation: 'Xuhao Chen, <b>Roshan Dathathri</b>, Gurbinder Gill, Loc Hoang, and
Keshav Pingali, "Sandslash: A Two-Level Framework for
Efficient Graph Pattern Mining", Proceedings of the ACM International Conference
on Supercomputing (ICS), June 2021.'
---
[(Download publication here)](https://chenxuhao.github.io/docs/ics-2021.pdf) [(Download slides here)](https://chenxuhao.github.io/docs/ics-2021.pptx) [(Download source code here)](https://github.com/chenxuhao/GraphMiner)

### Abstract

Graph pattern mining (GPM) is a key building block in
diverse applications, including bioinformatics, chemical engineering, social network analysis, recommender systems and
security. Existing GPM frameworks either provide high-level
interfaces for productivity at the cost of expressiveness or
provide expressive low-level interfaces at the cost of increased
programming complexity. They also lack the flexibility to
explore combinations of optimizations to achieve performance
competitive with hand-optimized applications.

We present Sandslash, an in-memory graph pattern mining
framework that uses a novel programming interface to support
productive, expressive, and efficient GPM on large graphs.
Sandslash provides a high-level API that only needs a specification of the GPM problem from the user, and the system
implements fast subgraph enumeration, provides efficient data
structures, and applies high-level optimizations automatically.
To achieve performance competitive with expert-optimized
implementations, Sandslash also provides a low-level API
that allows users to express algorithm-specific optimizations.
This enables Sandslash to support both high-productivity
and high-efficiency without losing expressiveness. We evaluate Sandslash using five GPM applications and a wide range
of real-world graphs. Experimental results demonstrate that
applications written using Sandslash’s high-level or low-level
API outperform those in state-of-the-art GPM systems AutoMine, Pangolin, and Peregrine on average by 13.8x, 7.9x,
and 5.4x, respectively. We also show that these Sandslash
applications outperform expert-optimized GPM implementations by 2.3x on average with less programming effort.
